---
title: Releasing 0.2.0
description: Making workflow development easy again.
slug: littlehorse-0.2.0-release
authors:
  - name: The LittleHorse Council
    image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/140006313?s=400&u=7bf4c91d92dfe590ac71bb6b4821e1a81aa5b712&v=4
tags: [littlehorse, release]
image: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/140006313?s=400&u=7bf4c91d92dfe590ac71bb6b4821e1a81aa5b712&v=4
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

We are excited to announce the release of `0.2.0`! <!-- truncate --> In this release, we added several new features, highlighted by User Tasks, security, and Python support.

## Get Started

LittleHorse is free for production use according to the Server-Side Public License!

To get started with LittleHorse OSS, you can:

* Visit us on [GitHub](https://github.com/littlehorse-enterprises)
* Try our [quickstarts](https://littlehorse.dev/docs/developer-guide/install#installation-and-quickstart)

Additionally, with version `0.2.0`, we have released our first two Docker Images:

* [`lh-server`](https://gallery.ecr.aws/littlehorse/littlehorse-server), the production-ready build of the LittleHorse Server.
* [`lh-standalone`](https://gallery.ecr.aws/littlehorse/littlehorse-standalone), a self-contained build of the LittleHorse Server that you can run to get a working LH Installation for local development.

## New Features

Release `0.2.0` contains many exciting new features, and we've highlighted a few here. 

### User Tasks

[User Tasks](https://littlehorse.dev/docs/concepts/user-tasks) are a massive new feature released in `0.2.0` which allow you to schedule tasks to be executed by a human user alongside tasks that are executed by computers.

In `0.2.0`, User Tasks have reached stability, meaning that future releases will be backwards-compatible with the current User Tasks API. We currently have the following features:

* Assignment of tasks to a User or User Group
* Reminder Tasks, or `TaskRun`'s that are scheduled some time after a `UserTaskRun` is scheduled.
* Automatic reassignment of a `UserTaskRun` after some period of inactivity.
* Manual reassignment of a `UserTaskRun`.
* `UserTaskRun` search.

:::note
The public API for User Tasks is stable in all of the grpc clients and in the Java `WfSpec` SDK.

The Go and Python grpc clients both support User Tasks. However, neither Python nor Go yet have support for User Tasks in the `WfSpec` SDK.
:::

### Workflow Threading

Release `0.2.0` allows you to use a `WAIT_FOR_THREADS` node to wait for more than one child thread at one time. For an example, see our [Parallel Approval Example](https://github.com/littlehorse-enterprises/littlehorse/tree/master/examples/parallel-approval) on our GitHub.

Future releases will provide _backwards-compatible_ enhancements to this
functionality, allowing various strategies for handling failures of individual child threads.

### Python Support

We have released an alpha [Python SDK](https://github.com/littlehorse-enterprises/littlehorse/tree/master/sdk-python)! This release contains:

* Python client in grpc
* Python Task Worker SDK

Currently, building `WfSpec`'s in Python is not supported. We aim to move python Task Worker support from alpha to beta, and add alpha support for `WfSpec` development in python, in the `0.3.0` release.

To try out our python task worker client, you can head to [Installation Docs](https://littlehorse.dev/docs/developer-guide/install) and the [Task Worker Development Docs](https://littlehorse.dev/docs/developer-guide/task-worker-development).

:::note
The Python SDK is in the alpha stage, meaning that future releases could break backwards compatibility.
:::

### Security

We added beta support for OAuth, TLS, and mTLS in release `0.2.0`. The following features graduated to "beta" in this release:

* TLS encryption for incoming connections on all listeners, configured on a per-listener basis.
* mTLS to authenticate incoming connections on any listeners, configured on a per-listener basis.
* OAuth to authenticate incoming connections on any public listener (excluding the inter-server communication port).

:::info
Beta support means that we will soon add significant functionality, and as such a future release _might_ break backwards compatibility.

However, future releases of a feature in the _beta_ state will most likely be backwards compatible with `0.2.0` barring exceptional circumstances.
:::

### Performance

We made several optimizations to our storage management sub-system, reducing the number of put's and get's into our backing state store by roughly 30%. As a result, a LittleHorse Server running with a single partition is capable of scheduling over 1,100 `TaskRun`'s per second.

### Go Support

Support for the Go client is now beta. Future releases will maintain compatibility for all features on our documentation.

Release `0.3.0` will close the gap between the Java and Go SDK's, adding features such as:
* Format Strings for Variable Assignments in the `WfSpec` SDK
* User Task support in the `WfSpec` SDK
* Configuring Indexes on `Variable`s in the `WfSpec` SDK

## What's Next

We have several exciting features coming soon over the next few releases, including:

* Fine-grained access controls
* Backward-compatible improvements to [Failure Handling](https://littlehorse.dev/docs/concepts/exception-handling)
* C# support
* Python support for building `WfSpec`s

For an enterprise-ready distribution of LittleHorse running in your own datacenter, contact `sales@littlehorse.io` to inquire about LittleHorse Platform.

For a pay-as-you-go, serverless Managed Service of LittleHorse in the cloud, fill out the [LH Cloud Waitlist Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScXVvTYy4LQnYoFoRKRQ7ppuxe0KgncsDukvm96qKN0pU5TnQ/viewform).
