---
title: Releasing 0.5.0
description: Python, For-Each, LH Platform.
slug: littlehorse-0.5.0-release
authors:
  - name: The LittleHorse Council
    image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/140006313?s=400&u=7bf4c91d92dfe590ac71bb6b4821e1a81aa5b712&v=4
tags: [littlehorse, release]
image: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/140006313?s=400&u=7bf4c91d92dfe590ac71bb6b4821e1a81aa5b712&v=4
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

We are excited to announce the minor release `0.5.0`. <!-- truncate --> This release is highlighted by:

* Alpha support for building `WfSpec`s in Python.
* Improved monitoring and health metrics on the LittleHorse Server.
* Support for looping over a `JSON_ARR` and launching threads in parallel for each element.
* Improved Exception Handling.
* Limited early access for LittleHorse Platform.

In this release, we made great strides towards full Python support, improved monitoring and observability, and added the ability to spawn threads in parallel looping over a `JSON_ARR` variable.

## Get Started

LittleHorse is free for production use according to the Server-Side Public License!

To get started with LittleHorse OSS, you can:

* Try our [quickstarts](https://littlehorse.dev/docs/developer-guide/install)
* Visit us on [GitHub](https://github.com/littlehorse-enterprises/littlehorse) and give us a :star:!
* Download our [docker images](https://gallery.ecr.aws/littlehorse)

## New Features

We'd like to highlight some of the exciting new features in `0.5.0`.

### Python `WfSpec` Support

Our Python SDK now has full support for building `WfSpec`s! You can check it out at our [quickstart page](/docs/developer-guide/install).

### For-Each Suppport

This is a very exciting feature which allows you to iterate over a list and spawn multiple `ThreadRun`s (like threads in a program).

To see it in action, check out our [example](https://github.com/littlehorse-enterprises/littlehorse/tree/master/examples/spawn-thread-foreach) or read the [documentation](https://littlehorse.dev/docs/developer-guide/wfspec-development/child-threads).

### Improved Failure Handling

This release introduces a new status for LittleHorse, called `EXCEPTION`. The `EXCEPTION` status differs from the `ERROR` status in the following ways:

* `ERROR` means an unexpected _technical_ failure occurred. For example, a `TaskRun` timed out because a third-party API was down.
* `EXCEPTION` means that a failure occurred at the _business process level_. For example, you might use an `EXCEPTION` when a customer has insufficient funds in her account to complete an order.

Just like in programming, you can throw and catch `EXCEPTION`s (and you can also catch `ERROR`s). For a blog post that goes in-depth into how LittleHorse makes it easy to handle failures in your workflows, check out our [Failure Handling Docs](/docs/concepts/exception-handling).

### LH Server Monitoring

We added a new path `/status` on the LH Server's health endpoint (port `1822` by default) which can be used to inspect the status of all internal Kafka Streams `Task`s on the LH Server. It presents the following information:

* All Active Tasks on the host
* All Standby Tasks on the host
* Any ongoing State Restorations on the host

Additionally, we added a `/diskUsage` endpoint which returns the number of bytes of disk space in use by the LH Server.

LittleHorse Platform uses these endpoints to intelligently scale, manage, and operate LittleHorse for you.

We are also in the process of writing and implementing a Kafka Improvement Proposal to improve visibility of Standby Tasks, which will allow the LittleHorse Operator (both in LH Platform and LH Cloud) to safely and smoothly scale LittleHorse clusters down without any downtime. Stay tuned in the Kafka developer mailing list!

### LH Platform

LittleHorse Platform is a Kubernetes Operator that securely manages a LittleHorse cluster for you in your own environment. It seamlessly integrates with your Kubernetes environmnent, GitOps workflows, and security strategy (TLS, mTLS, OAuth, Cert Manager, Keycloak).

LittleHorse Platform is now available for limited early access, and has been installed in one of the largest health insurance companies in the US.

To get started with LittleHorse Platform, please [contact us](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScXVvTYy4LQnYoFoRKRQ7ppuxe0KgncsDukvm96qKN0pU5TnQ/viewform?usp=sf_link).


### Persistent Variables

In LittleHorse `0.2.0` and later, you can search for `Variable`s by their value. For example, if you have a Workflow Specification that defines a variable `email_address`, you can find all Workflow Run's where `email_address == 'obiwan@jedi-council.org`  by using the `SearchVariable` rpc call.

The problem with `0.2.0`? You need to provide the `wfSpecVersion` in your search request. That means you can only search for a `Variable` if you know the version of the `WfSpec` it came from.

Release `0.4.0` introduced the ability to mark a `Variable` as `persistent`, which means that:
* Every future version of the `WfSpec` must have the same variable definition with the same index type.
* You can now search for variables with a certain value across _all versions_ of the `WfSpec`.

Be on the lookout for an upcoming blog post about using Persistent Variables and a simple backend-for-frontend to build an end-to-end Approval Workflow Application using only LittleHorse!

## What's Next

Over the next few weeks, we plan to:

* Add utilities to make it easier to work with the LittleHorse API.
* Allow users to throw a Workflow `EXCEPTION` from within the Task Worker SDK (currently, only `ERROR` is supported).
* Continue hardening the LittleHorse Server's availability and performance story.
* Launch limited early accesss for LittleHorse Cloud and LittleHorse UI.

To get started with LittleHorse, head over to our [installation docs](https://littlehorse.dev/docs/developer-guide/install).

### What about `0.3.0` and `0.4.0`?

We also released `0.3.0` and `0.4.0` over the past 5 weeks! (And before `0.3.0`, we had a minor patch bugfix on `0.2.1`).

The only thing missing with `0.3.0` and `0.4.0` is a blog post + announcement. That's because a lot of the features we included in this announcement were partially-implemented, implemented in some languages and not others, or in the "experimental" phase at the time of `0.3.0` and `0.4.0`. We accelerated the release of `0.3.0` and `0.4.0` because certain early-access customers requested certain features on an accelerated timeline.

As our API is mostly stable now, we will slow down our release cadence to likely a new `*.x.*` version (a `minor` release in [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org)) every two months, with security and bugfix patch releases (`*.*.x`) as needed.

Additionally, as we introduce new features, we will start a release changelog document in which we document the level of stability of the new API's introduced. For example:
* `STABLE`: Any changes to this API before the next [Major Release](https://semver.org) will be backwards compatible. The feature is covered by our integration tests.
* `BETA`: We don't anticipate any _large breaking changes_ to the feature/API. It is covered by our integration tests, but it _might_ change before the `1.0.0` release.
* `EXPERIMENTAL`: Try it out and give us feedback! But you might want to wait a release or two before putting it into production.

The `0.6.0` release notes will include a table of all of our features and their API Stability Level in all four of our SDK's.
