---
title: Releasing 0.10
description: TBD
slug: littlehorse-0.10-release
authors:
- lh_council
tags: [littlehorse, release]
image: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/140006313?s=400&u=7bf4c91d92dfe590ac71bb6b4821e1a81aa5b712&v=4
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

The `0.10` release brings with it significant performance and reliability improvements. <!-- truncate -->

## New Features

### `lhctl` Binaries and Release Notes

The `0.10.0` release comes with a new [Release Page](https://github.com/littlehorse-enterprises/littlehorse/releases), including artifacts with `lhctl` built for ARM, Intel, and Windows.

### Reliability during Rebalances

PR [#872](https://github.com/littlehorse-enterprises/littlehorse/pull/872) improves the reliability of LittleHorse during Kafka Streams rebalances. Previously, if a write request (eg. `rpc RunWf`) was received just before a rebalance, certain requests would "time out" from the client perspective and return a `DEADLINE_EXCEEDED` grpc error despite being properly accepted and processed by the server. This PR fixes that issue by redirecting the internal `rpc WaitForCommand` to the new destination for that command.

### Rescue Failed Workflows

PR [#883](https://github.com/littlehorse-enterprises/littlehorse/pull/883) allows users to restart failed `WfRun`'s via the `lhctl rescue` command. This is similar to allowing a user to execute mutating SQL queries via a CLI like `psql`.

With this feature, a user can fix a buggy Task Worker implementation and then restart a failed `WfRun` and get it to execute the failed `TaskRun` again via:

```
lhctl rescue <wfRunId> <threadRunNumber>
```

### mTLS Principals

Previously, only listeners of the type `OAUTH` supported `Principal`s. The `Principal` ID was determined by the OAuth Client ID or User Id. Release `0.10` introduces the ability to infer a `Principal` on an `MTLS` listener, where the `Principal` ID comes from the Common Name on the client certificate.

PR [#874](https://github.com/littlehorse-enterprises/littlehorse/pull/874) by one of our newer team members, [Jacob Snarr](https://github.com/snarr), introduced this feature.

### Dashboard Enhancements

The `0.10` release includes multiple enhancements to the Admin Dashboard, including:

* Ability to search for `WfRun`'s by their variables.
* Improved `WfRun` search.
* Fixed display of `TaskRun`s with the `EXCEPTION` and `ERROR` status.
* Showing `VariableMutation`s on the `Edge` in the dashboard.

## What's Next?

We will need one more minor release before finally releasing `1.0`. We need the following:

* Upgrade `org.apache.kafka:kafka-streams` to `3.8.0` to address several critical reliability bugs (we are waiting for the official release).
* Conduct new load tests and soak tests against the new version of Kafka Streams.
* Review our Go and Python SDK's in-depth to ensure proper semantics.

After that, we will be ready to commit to the backwards compatibility guarantees required by [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org). We will also release a blog post with our planned release schedule and support schedule.
