---
title: Releasing 0.9
description: Revamping the LittleHorse Dashboard
slug: littlehorse-0.9-release
authors:
  - name: The LittleHorse Council
    image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/140006313?s=400&u=7bf4c91d92dfe590ac71bb6b4821e1a81aa5b712&v=4
tags: [littlehorse, release]
image: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/140006313?s=400&u=7bf4c91d92dfe590ac71bb6b4821e1a81aa5b712&v=4
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

The `0.9.2` release is now availble and ready for use. <!-- truncate --> The `0.9.x` releases focused mainly on:

* Improving the user experience on the LittleHorse Dashboard
* Improving the reliability of the LH Server in the face of rebalances and failures.

## New Features

While the majority of the improvements in the `0.9` release revolve around performance and stability, several of them are highly visible to the user (especially the new dashboard!).

### Dashboard Rewrite

With help from [Nelson Jumbo](https://github.com/diablouma), LittleHorse Knight [Mijaíl Rondón](https://github.com/mijailrondon) rewrote and revamped our administrative dashboard. It now inclues new features such as:

* User Task Detail page
* Improved details on `TaskRun` progress
* Improved details on `WfRun` progress
* A plethora of small bug fixes.

### Internal Task Queue Optimizations

Deep in the internals of the LittleHorse Server, we implement a Task Queue mechanism to store `ScheduledTask`s before they're dispatched to the Task Worker clients. This release included many improvements to stability of the Task Queues.

Most importantly, our Grumpy Maintainer (Eduwer Camacaro) put a cap on the memory consumption of a single `TaskDef`. Prior to this release, it was possible for poorly-behaved clients to cause an OOM on the server by running millions of workflows which use a `TaskDef` but not executing the resulting `TaskRun`s. This would cause an un-bounded buildup of `ScheduledTask`s in memory until the server crashed.

After the `0.9` release, any more than 1,000 `ScheduledTask`s for a certain `TaskDef` are not loaded into memory but left on disk.

### Principal Deletion

The `0.9` release includes the ability to delete a `Principal`. The `rpc DeletePrincipal` is smart enough to ensure that there is always at least one Admin `Principal` to prevent a user from locking themselves out of the cluster.

### `PollThread` in Java Task Worker

We refactored the internal implementation of the Java Task Worker so that, for each LH Server in the cluster, the Task Worker creates a single `PollThread` object which is responsible for polling and executing `TaskRun`s. The `PollThread`s now poll in parallel, drastically increasing the throughput of a single Java Task Worker.

The `PollThread` was introduced in [#796](https://github.com/littlehorse-enterprises/littlehorse/pull/796).

## What's Next

Our wire protocol (the GRPC API) is quite stable; there have been no major breaking changes since we introduced the alpha version of Multi-Tenancy in `0.7`. We are diligently proceeding through soak tests, load tests, and chaos tests with our server and we have found and addressed several issues.

We continue to look foward to the `1.0` release, and we will reach that milestone once:

* We are satisfied with results of load tests and soak tests.
* We have had language experts review each of our three main SDK's (Java, Go, Python) and we have addressed any change requests.
* We approach a year without any breaking changes to our wire protocol.
